---
title: "Multiple resolution residual network for automatic thoracic organs-at-risk segmentation from CT"
page_class: "paper"
---

{% from "_macros.html" import presentation, button, teaser, youtube %}

# S308 - Multiple resolution residual network for automatic thoracic organs-at-risk segmentation from CT

#### Hyemin Um, Jue Jiang, Maria Thor, Andreas Rimner, Leo Luo, Joseph O. Deasy, Harini Veeraraghavan

[% .details %]
<a class="toggle_visibility" data-selector=".abstract" data-level="3">Show abstract</a>
- <a class="toggle_visibility" data-selector=".schedule" data-level="3">Show schedule</a>
- <a href="https://openreview.net/pdf?id=h3Miqa_jqN">Paper</a>
- <a href="https://openreview.net/forum?id=h3Miqa_jqN">Reviews</a>
{{ teaser('wmUgVsE_w38') }}

<p>
    <span class="abstract">
        We implemented and evaluated a multiple resolution residual network (MRRN) for multiple normal organs-at-risk (OAR) segmentation from computed tomography (CT) images for thoracic radiotherapy treatment (RT) planning. Our approach simultaneously combines feature streams computed at multiple image resolutions and feature levels through residual connections. The feature streams at each level are updated as the images are passed through various feature levels. We trained our approach using 206 thoracic CT scans of lung cancer patients with 35 scans held out for validation to segment the left and right lungs, heart, esophagus, and spinal cord. This approach was tested on the 60 CT scans from the open-source AAPM Thoracic Auto-Segmentation Challenge dataset. Performance was measured using the Dice Similarity Coefficient (DSC). Our approach outperformed the best-performing method in the grand challenge for hard-to-segment structures like the esophagus and achieved comparable results for all other structures. Median DSC using our method was 0.97 (interquartile range [IQR]: 0.97-0.98) for the left and right lungs, 0.93 (IQR: 0.93-0.95) for the heart, 0.78 (IQR: 0.76-0.80) for the esophagus, and 0.88 (IQR: 0.86-0.89) for the spinal cord. 
        <br>
        <span class="actions"><a class="toggle_visibility" data-level="2">Hide abstract</a></span>
    </span>
</p>

<p>
    <span class="schedule">
        Poster Session #6  - 13:30 - 15:00 UTC-4 (Wednesday)
        <br>
        <span class="actions"><a class="toggle_visibility" data-level="2">Hide schedule</a></span>
    </span>
</p>

{{ button("Access paper channel", "https://chat.midl.io/channel/s308") }}
[% / %]

---


### Short paper

---

{{ presentation('3VXeqFs5AWU', '/slides/um20.pdf', 720, 450) }}